README.md, before:

# BRD-to-Engineering System Generator (Python)

Pure Python implementation of the BRD-to-Engineering system generator without
n8n. It parses BRDs, calls LLM agents, applies guardrails, and outputs artifacts.

## Structure
```
BRD-2-SystemGenerator-python/
├── src/
│   ├── config.py
│   ├── parser.py
│   ├── agents.py
│   ├── guardrails.py
│   ├── orchestrator.py
│   └── cli.py
├── tests/
│   └── test_pipeline.py
└── requirements.txt
```

## Architecture
```mermaid
flowchart LR
  BRD[BRD Input] --> Parser[src/parser.py]
  Parser --> Sections[Structured BRD Sections]
  Sections --> Orchestrator[src/orchestrator.py]
  Orchestrator --> Agents[LLM Agents]
  Agents --> AgentPlan[Engineering Plan]
  Agents --> AgentSchedule[Schedule Estimate]
  Agents --> AgentPoc[POC Plan]
  Agents --> AgentArch[Solution Architecture]
  Agents --> AgentStack[Tech Stack Recs]
  AgentPlan --> Artifacts[Draft Artifacts JSON]
  AgentSchedule --> Artifacts
  AgentPoc --> Artifacts
  AgentArch --> Artifacts
  AgentStack --> Artifacts
  Artifacts --> Guardrails[src/guardrails.py]
  Guardrails --> Outputs[Validated Outputs]
  Outputs --> CLI[src/cli.py]
  Outputs --> UI[src/ui.py]
```

## Workflow
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant U as User
  participant C as CLI/UI
  participant P as Parser
  participant O as Orchestrator
  participant A as Agent Pool
  participant G as Guardrails
  U->>C: Provide BRD
  C->>P: Parse BRD
  P-->>C: Structured sections
  C->>O: Run pipeline
  O->>A: Dispatch generators
  A-->>O: Plan, schedule, POC, arch, tech stack
  O->>G: Validate schemas
  G-->>C: Valid outputs
  C-->>U: Engineering plan + artifacts
```

## Run
```
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp .env.example .env
# edit .env with your OpenAI key
python src/cli.py --input ../BRD-2-SystemGenerator/brd_agent_em/sample_inputs/sample_brd.md
```

## System Prompt
Set `SYSTEM_PROMPT` in `.env` to control the model's system instruction.

## Engineering Plan Schema
Each phase in `engineering_plan.schema.json` includes:
- `name`, `objectives`, `key_deliverables`, `dependencies`, `acceptance_criteria`

## Fallbacks
If a model call fails, the pipeline returns minimal fallback JSON defined in
`src/fallback.py` to keep outputs schema-safe.

## ROI Model (Transparent)
Use this to estimate time and cost savings for your org.

**Inputs**
- BRD length (pages)
- Complexity (low/medium/high)
- Review cycles (count)
- Hourly cost of EM/Architect

**Assumptions**
- Manual drafting time (per BRD): 6–12 hours
- AI draft time + review: 1–3 hours

**Outputs**
- Hours saved per BRD
- % time reduction
- Cost savings per BRD/quarter

## Streamlit UI
```
streamlit run src/ui.py
```

## Environment
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` for live LLM calls.

Commit message:

Add CLI E2E validator and eval cases

README.md, after:

# BRD-to-Engineering System Generator (Python)

Pure Python implementation of the BRD-to-Engineering system generator without
n8n. It parses BRDs, calls LLM agents, applies guardrails, and outputs artifacts.

## Structure
```
BRD-2-SystemGenerator-python/
├── src/
│   ├── config.py
│   ├── parser.py
│   ├── agents.py
│   ├── guardrails.py
│   ├── orchestrator.py
│   └── cli.py
├── tests/
│   └── test_pipeline.py
└── requirements.txt
```

## Architecture
```mermaid
flowchart LR
  BRD[BRD Input] --> Parser[src/parser.py]
  Parser --> Sections[Structured BRD Sections]
  Sections --> Orchestrator[src/orchestrator.py]
  Orchestrator --> Agents[LLM Agents]
  Agents --> AgentPlan[Engineering Plan]
  Agents --> AgentSchedule[Schedule Estimate]
  Agents --> AgentPoc[POC Plan]
  Agents --> AgentArch[Solution Architecture]
  Agents --> AgentStack[Tech Stack Recs]
  AgentPlan --> Artifacts[Draft Artifacts JSON]
  AgentSchedule --> Artifacts
  AgentPoc --> Artifacts
  AgentArch --> Artifacts
  AgentStack --> Artifacts
  Artifacts --> Guardrails[src/guardrails.py]
  Guardrails --> Outputs[Validated Outputs]
  Outputs --> CLI[src/cli.py]
  Outputs --> UI[src/ui.py]
```

## Workflow
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant U as User
  participant C as CLI/UI
  participant P as Parser
  participant O as Orchestrator
  participant A as Agent Pool
  participant G as Guardrails
  U->>C: Provide BRD
  C->>P: Parse BRD
  P-->>C: Structured sections
  C->>O: Run pipeline
  O->>A: Dispatch generators
  A-->>O: Plan, schedule, POC, arch, tech stack
  O->>G: Validate schemas
  G-->>C: Valid outputs
  C-->>U: Engineering plan + artifacts
```

## Run
```
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
cp .env.example .env
# edit .env with your OpenAI key
python src/cli.py --input ../BRD-2-SystemGenerator/brd_agent_em/sample_inputs/sample_brd.md
```

## E2E Validation (CLI)
Run the parser + pipeline checks over eval cases:
```
python evals/validate_e2e.py
```

Cycle the validator to stress test output consistency:
```
python evals/validate_e2e.py --cycles 10 --sleep-seconds 0.5
```

## MCP
Expose the pipeline as MCP tools over stdio:
```
python scripts/mcp_server.py
```

Tools:
- `parse_brd` for structured BRD sections
- `generate_artifacts` for the full artifact pipeline

## System Prompt
Set `SYSTEM_PROMPT` in `.env` to control the model's system instruction.

## Engineering Plan Schema
Each phase in `engineering_plan.schema.json` includes:
- `name`, `objectives`, `key_deliverables`, `dependencies`, `acceptance_criteria`

## Fallbacks
If a model call fails, the pipeline returns minimal fallback JSON defined in
`src/fallback.py` to keep outputs schema-safe.

## ROI Model (Transparent)
Use this to estimate time and cost savings for your org.

**Inputs**
- BRD length (pages)
- Complexity (low/medium/high)
- Review cycles (count)
- Hourly cost of EM/Architect

**Assumptions**
- Manual drafting time (per BRD): 6–12 hours
- AI draft time + review: 1–3 hours

**Outputs**
- Hours saved per BRD
- % time reduction
- Cost savings per BRD/quarter

## Streamlit UI
```
streamlit run src/ui.py
```

## Environment
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` for live LLM calls.
